JUDY WOODRUFF: And to continue
our politics conversation,
we're joined now by Tamara Keith
of NPR and Stu Rothenberg,
senior editor at
Inside Elections.
Thank you both.
It's good to have you.
So, Tam, you just heard Chris
Ruddy, who does talk to people
in the White House -- he said
he talked to the president on
Friday -- say that he thinks
the president is considering
terminating Robert Mueller.
Is that something
we were aware of?
TAMARA KEITH, National Public
Radio: Certainly, there has
been stuff around on Twitter of
other Republicans raising
questions about Mueller.
But the way that Ruddy just
couched that, he made it
clear that -- and maybe he was
protecting himself and the
president, but he made it clear
that he was basing that on
something that one of the
president's lawyers had
said on TV over the weekend.
The other thing that stood out
to me is talking about Robert
Mueller having had a meeting
at the White House, having met
with the president, possibly to
take the job of FBI director,
which is a job he
had held before.
NPR and Carrie Johnson,
my colleague at NPR,
had been reporting that
Mueller had met with
Justice Department officials
and also White House officials.
But the idea that he also met
with the president himself
is new, to me at least.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Stu
Rothenberg, this is --
these are -- the story
just keep bubbling up about
Mr. Mueller, Mr. Comey,
the president, the
Russia investigation.
This is a White House that,
this week, is trying to get
-- clearly get away from this.
STUART ROTHENBERG,
Inside Elections: Right.
JUDY WOODRUFF: They have labeled
it Workforce Development Week.
What -- can they have -- can
they make any progress in
changing direction when you have
this kind of
conversation going on?
STUART ROTHENBERG: Right.
I think it's a great idea
that they should try to change
the discussion and narrative.
But, in this case, as
you point out, there's
too much is going on.
During Workforce Development
Week, tomorrow, we have the
Sessions testimony on the Hill.
We have two attorneys general,
one from D.C., one from
Maryland, announced that they're
going to sue the president
over the Emoluments Clause.
We had today the Ninth Circuit
Court issuing an opinion
upholding the travel ban.
It's as if the president has
already kind of broken so
many bottles and glasses that
there is glass strewn on the
floor and any step he takes,
he's going to crunch something.
So, I think it would be a
wonderful idea for the White
House to change the subject, but
you can see what happened
in the last 24 hours.
JUDY WOODRUFF: But, Tam,
they're still trying.
Last week, it was
infrastructure week.
TAMARA KEITH: And
that was not...
JUDY WOODRUFF: And Mr. Comey.
TAMARA KEITH: Yes.
(LAUGHTER)
TAMARA KEITH: And Mr. Comey
week is actually what it was.
And so the president
is flying tomorrow.
He's going to Waukesha,
Wisconsin, to tour a
technical college and talk
about apprenticeships.
On a slow news day, any other
president, that might sort of
be a headline, but it certainly
wouldn't be a
front-page headline.
If you're trying to distract
some very big headlines, going
to a technical college isn't
necessarily the answer.
Here's the other thing.
We have been trying to press
the White House to find out
what policy change the president
actually envisions or
they say that they want
more private-to-private
partnerships, to do
more apprenticeships.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Around this
work force development, right.
TAMARA KEITH: Exactly, around
this work force development.
But then they're saying, well,
you will have to wait until
Wednesday to find out exactly
what we're talking about.
And that's a long time to
wait and it's a long time to
expect people to pay attention
to something that is not related
to the biggest news of the day.
STUART ROTHENBERG:
Two other points.
One is, are there tapes?
That hasn't been answered,
so, every day, reporters
are going to ask that.
And the other thing
was, I think Chris Ruddy
made some news today.
He said the president is
considering the firing
of the special counsel.
Isn't that the next
week's discussion now?
So, it's hard for me
to believe that...
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, and we
couldn't tell - - as Tamara
was saying, we couldn't tell
if he was just referring to
what one of the president's
lawyers is saying, but the fact
that he said it has...
STUART ROTHENBERG: And the way
he said it, yes, absolutely.
JUDY WOODRUFF: .. has
to make us wonder.
TAMARA KEITH: Stunning.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, as you
mentioned, Stu, you have got
the travel ban decision today
by the federal court.
There doesn't seem
to be good news.
I mean, health care reform
seems to be, at least for the
time being, slogged, stopped
up.
Stopped up, is that
the word in the Senate?
There is nothing happening yet.
Maybe it will happen.
We haven't seen a
tax reform plan.
Are we just going to
watch the news develop
every week like this?
And...
STUART ROTHENBERG:
Yes, I think so.
So, there is a problem
for the White House
on a number of levels.
The president wants to
change the narrative.
He also wants to
accomplish things.
He hasn't yet.
Maybe he will.
But one of the things I believed
for many weeks and months is
that he has to worry about
the fatigue factor on
the American public.
I remember thinking back to
Bill Clinton and all the drama
in the Clinton White House.
And after a while,
people thought, ay yi yi,
another thing we have.
Oy gevalt, as we say.
This is the same kind of thing.
It's -- there is another
crisis every day.
And after a while, people
just -- they don't want that.
They want things to
return to normal.
And Donald Trump's -- the
whole premise of Donald
Trump is upsetting normal.
Well, you can only do that if
you accomplish certain things
and people start to feel better
about themselves
and the country.
JUDY WOODRUFF: How much do
they recognize this at the
White House, do you think, Tam?
TAMARA KEITH: Well, they're
obviously trying to correct it.
They're trying to do things that
normal presidents do, like hold
a Cabinet meeting, as they did
today, though it turned into
somewhat unusual session of
every Cabinet head praising the
president in very effusive
ways that is sort of beyond
what would be normal for one of
these types of events, one
of these types of photo-ops.
JUDY WOODRUFF: I want to turn
you to something - - because
we do pay attention to parts of
the country, Stu, outside
of Washington occasionally.
But there are a couple
of elections coming up.
Tomorrow in Virginia,
there's a primary as they
choose their governor.
STUART ROTHENBERG: Right.
JUDY WOODRUFF: A week from
tomorrow, there's a much-watched
vote to choose the next member
of Congress from the 6th
District in Atlanta, Georgia.
STUART ROTHENBERG: Yes,
and I think that special
election is a really big deal.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Yes.
STUART ROTHENBERG: I think
Democrats have been hoping...
JUDY WOODRUFF: In Georgia.
STUART ROTHENBERG: In Georgia,
right, the Georgia 6th special.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Yes.
STUART ROTHENBERG: Democrats
have been hoping for a victory
to take off over a Republican
seat.
This one was very close.
Donald Trump won it by
a point in November.
And the Democrats feel like they
have a great opportunity here.
And if they do, then we will
have another news story, another
data point that the White
House will have to respond to.
If the Democrats lose,
I think, after losing
in Kansas and Montana --
and, yes, the Democrats
kind of exceeded expectations
-- but losing in the Georgia
seat, there will be a sense
of just, are the voters really
turning on Donald Trump or not?
So I think it's a big
deal for both parties.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Is the White
House watching that one?
TAMARA KEITH: Oh, absolutely
they're watching it.
And just today, President
Trump was saying, look, we did
well in Kansas, we did well in
Montana, Democrats think they
have something going on, but,
no, they don't, look at what
we have done.
So, the president himself
is watching this closely.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And he
said complimentary things
about Karen Handel, the
Republican candidate.
TAMARA KEITH: I think
he would take it as a
personal loss if she loses.
JUDY WOODRUFF:
Because -- is it, Stu?
STUART ROTHENBERG: It would be.
It would be.
JUDY WOODRUFF: A statement
about Donald Trump?
STUART ROTHENBERG: Oh, yes.
Neither Karen Handel, the
Democrat -- the Republican,
nor Jon Ossoff, the Democrat,
are perfect candidates.
They have raised a lot of money.
There is a lot of
energy, and most of it is
national money and energy.
But I don't -- think
there's no doubt.
If there was a Democrat in the
White House, I would expect
the Republican to win the race
easily.
And now, with a controversial
Republican in the White House,
no, this election is -- it's
about Donald Trump.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Stu Rothenberg,
Tamara Keith, this is
about the two of you.
Thank you.
(LAUGHTER)
TAMARA KEITH: Thank you.